---
layout: post
title:  "Week 2"
date:   2021-05-31 19:37:20 +0530
categories: jekyll update
---

## 31-05-2021

Had a meeting in the morning. Discussed on the report. Suggestion was to include texture analysis along with color features for classification. HOG + SVM was suggested. After meeting, did a review on HOG. Then created a dataset containing strawberries and background using the YOLO that I have trained. This made creatinfg the dataset easy.

## 01-06-2021

Trained SVM using dataset created yesterday. There are may false positives detected. HOG is not a good feature extracter for this problem statement. Did a bit of research and found that LBPH can be a good feature descriptor. Read a bit on it and implemented it. There are false positives but the best part is that most of the required objects were detected. To remove the false positives I need to add a bit more post-processing. Worked on the Basic_IP and HOG SVM report.

## 02-06-2021

Implemented ROI proposal method for HOG + SVM. Not working. So, implemented sliding window technique. Still getting many false positives. Read articles to remove them but no luck!!

## 03-06-2021

Most of the day went into training the YOLO model. Thought of shifting from laptop to Google Colab for training. Google coloab was giving a lot of problems.The session keeps on expiring. Came back to laptop and started training. 5000 epochs done.

## 04-06-2021

Updated report 1. Included detailed explanation of the algorithm. Added different kinds of metrics to evaluate the model. Added content about HOG + SVM. Kept YOLO for training again. 6000 epochs are done. My laptop fins sound like a fighter jet >_<

## 05-06-2021

Made a presentation that will be presented on next Monday. 